README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/docling-project/docling">
    <img loading="lazy" alt="Docling" src="https://github.com/docling-project/docling/raw/main/docs/assets/docling_processing.png" width="100%"/>
  </a>
</p>

# Docling

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://trendshift.io/repositories/12132" target="_blank"><img src="https://trendshift.io/api/badge/repositories/12132" alt="DS4SD%2Fdocling | Trendshift" style="width: 250px; height: 55px;" width="250" height="55"/></a>
</p>

[![arXiv](https://img.shields.io/badge/arXiv-2408.09869-b31b1b.svg)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.09869)
[![Docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-live-brightgreen)](https://docling-project.github.io/docling/)
[![PyPI version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/docling)](https://pypi.org/project/docling/)
[![PyPI - Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/docling)](https://pypi.org/project/docling/)
[![uv](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astral-sh/uv/main/assets/badge/v0.json)](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv)
[![Ruff](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astral-sh/ruff/main/assets/badge/v2.json)](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff)
[![Pydantic v2](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pydantic/pydantic/main/docs/badge/v2.json)](https://pydantic.dev)
[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)
[![License MIT](https://img.shields.io/github/license/docling-project/docling)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![PyPI Downloads](https://static.pepy.tech/badge/docling/month)](https://pepy.tech/projects/docling)
[![Docling Actor](https://apify.com/actor-badge?actor=vancura/docling?fpr=docling)](https://apify.com/vancura/docling)
[![Chat with Dosu](https://dosu.dev/dosu-chat-badge.svg)](https://app.dosu.dev/097760a8-135e-4789-8234-90c8837d7f1c/ask?utm_source=github)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/1399788921306746971?color=6A7EC2&logo=discord&logoColor=ffffff)](https://docling.ai/discord)
[![OpenSSF Best Practices](https://www.bestpractices.dev/projects/10101/badge)](https://www.bestpractices.dev/projects/10101)
[![LF AI & Data](https://img.shields.io/badge/LF%20AI%20%26%20Data-003778?logo=linuxfoundation&logoColor=fff&color=0094ff&labelColor=003778)](https://lfaidata.foundation/projects/)

Docling simplifies document processing, parsing diverse formats — including advanced PDF understanding — and providing seamless integrations with the gen AI ecosystem.

## Features

* 🗂️ Parsing of [multiple document formats][supported_formats] incl. PDF, DOCX, PPTX, XLSX, HTML, WAV, MP3, VTT, images (PNG, TIFF, JPEG, ...), and more
* 📑 Advanced PDF understanding incl. page layout, reading order, table structure, code, formulas, image classification, and more
* 🧬 Unified, expressive [DoclingDocument][docling_document] representation format
* ↪️ Various [export formats][supported_formats] and options, including Markdown, HTML, [DocTags](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.11576) and lossless JSON
* 🔒 Local execution capabilities for sensitive data and air-gapped environments
* 🤖 Plug-and-play [integrations][integrations] incl. LangChain, LlamaIndex, Crew AI & Haystack for agentic AI
* 🔍 Extensive OCR support for scanned PDFs and images
* 👓 Support of several Visual Language Models ([GraniteDocling](https://huggingface.co/ibm-granite/granite-docling-258M))
* 🎙️ Audio support with Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) models
* 🔌 Connect to any agent using the [MCP server](https://docling-project.github.io/docling/usage/mcp/)
* 💻 Simple and convenient CLI

### What's new
* 📤 Structured [information extraction][extraction] \[🧪 beta\]
* 📑 New layout model (**Heron**) by default, for faster PDF parsing
* 🔌 [MCP server](https://docling-project.github.io/docling/usage/mcp/) for agentic applications
* 💬 Parsing of Web Video Text Tracks (WebVTT) files

### Coming soon

* 📝 Metadata extraction, including title, authors, references & language
* 📝 Chart understanding (Barchart, Piechart, LinePlot, etc)
* 📝 Complex chemistry understanding (Molecular structures)

## Installation

To use Docling, simply install `docling` from your package manager, e.g. pip:
```bash
pip install docling
```

Works on macOS, Linux and Windows environments. Both x86_64 and arm64 architectures.

More [detailed installation instructions](https://docling-project.github.io/docling/installation/) are available in the docs.

## Getting started

To convert individual documents with python, use `convert()`, for example:

```python
from docling.document_converter import DocumentConverter

source = "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2408.09869"  # document per local path or URL
converter = DocumentConverter()
result = converter.convert(source)
print(result.document.export_to_markdown())  # output: "## Docling Technical Report[...]"
```

More [advanced usage options](https://docling-project.github.io/docling/usage/advanced_options/) are available in
the docs.

## CLI

Docling has a built-in CLI to run conversions.

```bash
docling https://arxiv.org/pdf/2206.01062
```

You can also use 🥚[GraniteDocling](https://huggingface.co/ibm-granite/granite-docling-258M) and other VLMs via Docling CLI:
```bash
docling --pipeline vlm --vlm-model granite_docling https://arxiv.org/pdf/2206.01062
```
This will use MLX acceleration on supported Apple Silicon hardware.

Read more [here](https://docling-project.github.io/docling/usage/)

## Documentation

Check out Docling's [documentation](https://docling-project.github.io/docling/), for details on
installation, usage, concepts, recipes, extensions, and more.

## Examples

Go hands-on with our [examples](https://docling-project.github.io/docling/examples/),
demonstrating how to address different application use cases with Docling.

## Integrations

To further accelerate your AI application development, check out Docling's native
[integrations](https://docling-project.github.io/docling/integrations/) with popular frameworks
and tools.

## Get help and support

Please feel free to connect with us using the [discussion section](https://github.com/docling-project/docling/discussions).

## Technical report

For more details on Docling's inner workings, check out the [Docling Technical Report](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.09869).

## Contributing

Please read [Contributing to Docling](https://github.com/docling-project/docling/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## References

If you use Docling in your projects, please consider citing the following:

```bib
@techreport{Docling,
  author = {Deep Search Team},
  month = {8},
  title = {Docling Technical Report},
  url = {https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.09869},
  eprint = {2408.09869},
  doi = {10.48550/arXiv.2408.09869},
  version = {1.0.0},
  year = {2024}
}
```

## License

The Docling codebase is under MIT license.
For individual model usage, please refer to the model licenses found in the original packages.

## LF AI & Data

Docling is hosted as a project in the [LF AI & Data Foundation](https://lfaidata.foundation/projects/).

### IBM ❤️ Open Source AI

The project was started by the AI for knowledge team at IBM Research Zurich.

[supported_formats]: https://docling-project.github.io/docling/usage/supported_formats/
[docling_document]: https://docling-project.github.io/docling/concepts/docling_document/
[integrations]: https://docling-project.github.io/docling/integrations/
[extraction]: https://docling-project.github.io/docling/examples/extraction/

Commit message:

Add python 3.9 removal notice
Signed-off-by: Christoph Auer <cau@zurich.ibm.com>

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/docling-project/docling">
    <img loading="lazy" alt="Docling" src="https://github.com/docling-project/docling/raw/main/docs/assets/docling_processing.png" width="100%"/>
  </a>
</p>

# Docling

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://trendshift.io/repositories/12132" target="_blank"><img src="https://trendshift.io/api/badge/repositories/12132" alt="DS4SD%2Fdocling | Trendshift" style="width: 250px; height: 55px;" width="250" height="55"/></a>
</p>

[![arXiv](https://img.shields.io/badge/arXiv-2408.09869-b31b1b.svg)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.09869)
[![Docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-live-brightgreen)](https://docling-project.github.io/docling/)
[![PyPI version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/docling)](https://pypi.org/project/docling/)
[![PyPI - Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/docling)](https://pypi.org/project/docling/)
[![uv](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astral-sh/uv/main/assets/badge/v0.json)](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv)
[![Ruff](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astral-sh/ruff/main/assets/badge/v2.json)](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff)
[![Pydantic v2](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pydantic/pydantic/main/docs/badge/v2.json)](https://pydantic.dev)
[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)
[![License MIT](https://img.shields.io/github/license/docling-project/docling)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![PyPI Downloads](https://static.pepy.tech/badge/docling/month)](https://pepy.tech/projects/docling)
[![Docling Actor](https://apify.com/actor-badge?actor=vancura/docling?fpr=docling)](https://apify.com/vancura/docling)
[![Chat with Dosu](https://dosu.dev/dosu-chat-badge.svg)](https://app.dosu.dev/097760a8-135e-4789-8234-90c8837d7f1c/ask?utm_source=github)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/1399788921306746971?color=6A7EC2&logo=discord&logoColor=ffffff)](https://docling.ai/discord)
[![OpenSSF Best Practices](https://www.bestpractices.dev/projects/10101/badge)](https://www.bestpractices.dev/projects/10101)
[![LF AI & Data](https://img.shields.io/badge/LF%20AI%20%26%20Data-003778?logo=linuxfoundation&logoColor=fff&color=0094ff&labelColor=003778)](https://lfaidata.foundation/projects/)

Docling simplifies document processing, parsing diverse formats — including advanced PDF understanding — and providing seamless integrations with the gen AI ecosystem.

## Features

* 🗂️ Parsing of [multiple document formats][supported_formats] incl. PDF, DOCX, PPTX, XLSX, HTML, WAV, MP3, VTT, images (PNG, TIFF, JPEG, ...), and more
* 📑 Advanced PDF understanding incl. page layout, reading order, table structure, code, formulas, image classification, and more
* 🧬 Unified, expressive [DoclingDocument][docling_document] representation format
* ↪️ Various [export formats][supported_formats] and options, including Markdown, HTML, [DocTags](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.11576) and lossless JSON
* 🔒 Local execution capabilities for sensitive data and air-gapped environments
* 🤖 Plug-and-play [integrations][integrations] incl. LangChain, LlamaIndex, Crew AI & Haystack for agentic AI
* 🔍 Extensive OCR support for scanned PDFs and images
* 👓 Support of several Visual Language Models ([GraniteDocling](https://huggingface.co/ibm-granite/granite-docling-258M))
* 🎙️ Audio support with Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) models
* 🔌 Connect to any agent using the [MCP server](https://docling-project.github.io/docling/usage/mcp/)
* 💻 Simple and convenient CLI

### What's new
* 📤 Structured [information extraction][extraction] \[🧪 beta\]
* 📑 New layout model (**Heron**) by default, for faster PDF parsing
* 🔌 [MCP server](https://docling-project.github.io/docling/usage/mcp/) for agentic applications
* 💬 Parsing of Web Video Text Tracks (WebVTT) files

### Coming soon

* 📝 Metadata extraction, including title, authors, references & language
* 📝 Chart understanding (Barchart, Piechart, LinePlot, etc)
* 📝 Complex chemistry understanding (Molecular structures)

## Installation

To use Docling, simply install `docling` from your package manager, e.g. pip:
```bash
pip install docling
```

> **Note:** Python 3.9 support was dropped in docling version 2.70.0. Please use Python 3.10 or higher.

Works on macOS, Linux and Windows environments. Both x86_64 and arm64 architectures.

More [detailed installation instructions](https://docling-project.github.io/docling/installation/) are available in the docs.

## Getting started

To convert individual documents with python, use `convert()`, for example:

```python
from docling.document_converter import DocumentConverter

source = "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2408.09869"  # document per local path or URL
converter = DocumentConverter()
result = converter.convert(source)
print(result.document.export_to_markdown())  # output: "## Docling Technical Report[...]"
```

More [advanced usage options](https://docling-project.github.io/docling/usage/advanced_options/) are available in
the docs.

## CLI

Docling has a built-in CLI to run conversions.

```bash
docling https://arxiv.org/pdf/2206.01062
```

You can also use 🥚[GraniteDocling](https://huggingface.co/ibm-granite/granite-docling-258M) and other VLMs via Docling CLI:
```bash
docling --pipeline vlm --vlm-model granite_docling https://arxiv.org/pdf/2206.01062
```
This will use MLX acceleration on supported Apple Silicon hardware.

Read more [here](https://docling-project.github.io/docling/usage/)

## Documentation

Check out Docling's [documentation](https://docling-project.github.io/docling/), for details on
installation, usage, concepts, recipes, extensions, and more.

## Examples

Go hands-on with our [examples](https://docling-project.github.io/docling/examples/),
demonstrating how to address different application use cases with Docling.

## Integrations

To further accelerate your AI application development, check out Docling's native
[integrations](https://docling-project.github.io/docling/integrations/) with popular frameworks
and tools.

## Get help and support

Please feel free to connect with us using the [discussion section](https://github.com/docling-project/docling/discussions).

## Technical report

For more details on Docling's inner workings, check out the [Docling Technical Report](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.09869).

## Contributing

Please read [Contributing to Docling](https://github.com/docling-project/docling/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## References

If you use Docling in your projects, please consider citing the following:

```bib
@techreport{Docling,
  author = {Deep Search Team},
  month = {8},
  title = {Docling Technical Report},
  url = {https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.09869},
  eprint = {2408.09869},
  doi = {10.48550/arXiv.2408.09869},
  version = {1.0.0},
  year = {2024}
}
```

## License

The Docling codebase is under MIT license.
For individual model usage, please refer to the model licenses found in the original packages.

## LF AI & Data

Docling is hosted as a project in the [LF AI & Data Foundation](https://lfaidata.foundation/projects/).

### IBM ❤️ Open Source AI

The project was started by the AI for knowledge team at IBM Research Zurich.

[supported_formats]: https://docling-project.github.io/docling/usage/supported_formats/
[docling_document]: https://docling-project.github.io/docling/concepts/docling_document/
[integrations]: https://docling-project.github.io/docling/integrations/
[extraction]: https://docling-project.github.io/docling/examples/extraction/
