TableFormer: Table Structure Understanding with Transformers. Ahmed Nassar, Nikolaos Livathinos, Maksym Lysak, Peter Staar IBM Research f ahn,nli,mly,taa g @zurich.ibm.com Abstract Tables organize valuable content in a concise and com- pact representation. This content is extremely valuable for systems such as search engines, Knowledge Graph’s, etc, since they enhance their predictive capabilities. Unfortu- nately, tables come in a large variety of shapes and sizes. Furthermore, they can have complex column/row-header congurations, multiline rows, different variety of separa- tion lines, missing entries, etc. As such, the correct iden- tication of the table-structure from an image is a non- trivial task. In this paper, we present a new table-structure identication model. The latter improves the latest end-to- end deep learning model (i.e. encoder-dual-decoder from PubTabNet) in two signicant ways. First, we introduce a new object detection decoder for table-cells. In this way, we can obtain the content of the table-cells from program- matic PDF’s directly from the PDF source and avoid the training of the custom OCR decoders. This architectural change leads to more accurate table-content extraction and allows us to tackle non-english tables. Second, we replace the LSTM decoders with transformer based decoders. This upgrade improves signicantly the previous state-of-the-art tree-editing-distance-score (TEDS) from 91% to 98.5% on simple tables and from 88.7% to 95% on complex tables. 1. Introduction The occurrence of tables in documents is ubiquitous. They often summarise quantitative or factual data, which is cumbersome to describe in verbose text but nevertheless ex- tremely valuable. Unfortunately, this compact representa- tion is often not easy to parse by machines. There are many implicit conventions used to obtain a compact table repre- sentation. For example, tables often have complex column- and row-headers in order to reduce duplicated cell content. Lines of different shapes and sizes are leveraged to separate content or indicate a tree structure. Additionally, tables can also have empty/missing table-entries or multi-row textual table-entries. Fig.  1  shows a table which presents all these issues. 
Figure 1: Picture of a table with subtle, complex features such as (1) multi-column headers, (2) cell with multi-row text and (3) cells with no content. Image from PubTabNet evaluation set, lename: ‘PMC2944238

## 004

02’. Recently, signicant progress has been made with vi- sion based approaches to extract tables in documents. For the sake of completeness, the issue of table extraction from documents is typically decomposed into two separate chal- lenges, i.e. (1) nding the location of the table(s) on a document-page and (2) nding the structure of a given table in the document. The rst problem is called table-location and has been previously addressed [ 30 ,  38 ,  19 ,  21 ,  23 ,  26 ,  8 ] with state- of-the-art object-detection networks (e.g. YOLO and later on Mask-RCNN [ 9 ]). For all practical purposes, it can be 1 
arXiv:2203.01017v2  [cs.CV]  11 Mar 2022

sition. The latter is a long standing problem in the com
the table-location problem, there are no commonly used approaches that can easily be re-purposed to solve this problem. Lately, a set of new model-architectures has been proposed by the community to address table-structure decomposition [ 37 , 36 , 18 , 20 ]. All these models have some weaknesses (see Sec. 2 ). The common denominator here is the
reliance on textual features and/or the inability to provide
the bounding box of each table-cell in the original image.
In this paper, we want to address these weaknesses and
present a robust table-structure decomposition algorithm.
The design criteria for our model are the following. First,
we want our algorithm to be language agnostic. In this way,
we can obtain the structure of any table, irregardless of the
language. Second, we want our algorithm to leverage as
much data as possible from the original PDF document. For
programmatic PDF documents, the text-cells can often be
extracted much faster and with higher accuracy compared
to OCR methods. Last but not least, we want to have a direct link between the table-cell and its bounding box in the
image.

To meet the design criteria listed above, we developed a
new model called TableFormer and a synthetically generated table structure dataset called SynthTabNet . In particular, our contributions in this work can be summarised as
follows:

We present SynthTabNet a synthetically generated images [ 32 ]. In these IETD networks, one expects as output
dataset, with various appearance styles and complex- the LaTeX/HTML string of the entire table, i.e. the symity. bols necessary for creating the table with the content of the

An augmented dataset based on PubTabNet [ 37 ], coder (IEDD) networks. In these type of networks, one has
FinTabNet [ 36 ], and TableBank [ 17 ] with generated two consecutive decoders with different purposes. The rst
ground-truth for reproducibility. decoder is the tag-decoder , i.e. it only produces the HTM-

The paper is structured as follows. In Sec. 2 , we give
a brief overview of the current state-of-the-art. In Sec. 3 ,
we describe the datasets on which we train. In Sec. 4 , we
introduce the TableFormer model-architecture and describe
1 https://github.com/IBM/SynthTabNet elaborate, but it has the advantage that one can pre-train the

2

its results & performance in Sec. 5 . As a conclusion, we de- considered as a solved problem, given enough ground-truth
scribe how this new model-architecture can be re-purposed data to train on.
for other tasks in the computer-vision community. The second problem is called table-structure decompo-

2. Previous work and State of the Art munity of document understanding [ 6 , 4 , 14 ]. Contrary to
Identifying the structure of a table has been an outstanding problem in the document-parsing community, that motivates many organised public challenges [ 6 , 4 , 14 ]. The
difculty of the problem can be attributed to a number of
factors. First, there is a large variety in the shapes and sizes
of tables. Such large variety requires a exible method.
This is especially true for complex column- and row headers, which can be extremely intricate and demanding. A
second factor of complexity is the lack of data with regard
to table-structure. Until the publication of PubTabNet [ 37 ],
there were no large datasets (i.e. > 100 K tables) that provided structure information. This happens primarily due to
the fact that tables are notoriously time-consuming to annotate by hand. However, this has denitely changed in recent years with the deliverance of PubTabNet [ 37 ], FinTab-
Net [ 36 ], TableBank [ 17 ] etc.

Before the rising popularity of deep neural networks,
the community relied heavily on heuristic and/or statistical
methods to do table structure identication [ 3 , 7 , 11 , 5 , 13 ,
28 ]. Although such methods work well on constrained tables [ 12 ], a more data-driven approach can be applied due
to the advent of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and 1
the availability of large datasets. To the best-of-our knowledge, there are currently two different types of network architecture that are being pursued for state-of-the-art tablestructure identication. We propose TableFormer , a transformer based model
Image-to-Text networks : In this type of network, one that predicts tables structure and bounding boxes for
predicts a sequence of tokens starting from an encoded the table content simultaneously in an end-to-end apimage. Such sequences of tokens can be HTML table proach.
tags [ 37 , 17 ] or LaTeX symbols[ 10 ]. The choice of symbols is ultimately not very important, since one can be trans- Across all benchmark datasets TableFormer signifformed into the other. There are however subtle variations icantly outperforms existing state-of-the-art metrics,
in the Image-to-Text networks. The easiest network archi- while being much more efcient in training and infertectures are image-encoder ! text-decoder (IETD), sim- ence to existing works.
ilar to network architectures that try to provide captions to

table. Another approach is the image-encoder ! dual de-

L/LaTeX tags which construct an empty table. The second
content-decoder uses the encoding of the image in combination with the output encoding of each cell-tag (from the
tag-decoder ) to generate the textual content of each table
cell. The network architecture of IEDD is certainly more

tag-decoder which is constrained to the table-tags. In practice, both network architectures (IETD and IEDD) require an implicit, custom trained object-character- recognition (OCR) to obtain the content of the table-cells. In the case of IETD, this OCR engine is implicit in the de- coder similar to [ 24 ]. For the IEDD, the OCR is solely em- bedded in the content-decoder. This reliance on a custom, implicit OCR decoder is of course problematic. OCR is a well known and extremely tough problem, that often needs custom training for each individual language. However, the limited availability for non-english content in the current datasets, makes it impractical to apply the IETD and IEDD methods on tables with other languages. Additionally, OCR can be completely omitted if the tables originate from pro- grammatic PDF documents with known positions of each cell. The latter was the inspiration for the work of this pa- per. Graph Neural networks : Graph Neural networks (GNN’s) take a radically different approach to table- structure extraction. Note that one table cell can consti- tute out of multiple text-cells. To obtain the table-structure, one creates an initial graph, where each of the text-cells becomes a node in the graph similar to [ 33 ,  34 ,  2 ]. Each node is then associated with en embedding vector coming from the encoded image, its coordinates and the encoded text. Furthermore, nodes that represent adjacent text-cells are linked. Graph Convolutional Networks (GCN’s) based methods take the image as an input, but also the position of the text-cells and their content [ 18 ]. The purpose of a GCN is to transform the input graph into a new graph, which re- places the old links with new ones. The new links then represent the table-structure. With this approach, one can avoid the need to build custom OCR decoders. However, the quality of the reconstructed structure is not comparable to the current state-of-the-art [ 18 ]. Hybrid Deep Learning-Rule-Based approach : A pop- ular current model for table-structure identication is the use of a hybrid Deep Learning-Rule-Based approach similar to [ 27 ,  29 ]. In this approach, one rst detects the position of the table-cells with object detection (e.g. YoloVx or Mask- RCNN), then classies the table into different types (from its images) and nally uses different rule-sets to obtain its table-structure. Currently, this approach achieves state- of-the-art results, but is not an end-to-end deep-learning method. As such, new rules need to be written if different types of tables are encountered. 3. Datasets We rely on large-scale datasets such as PubTabNet [ 37 ], FinTabNet [ 36 ], and TableBank [ 17 ] datasets to train and evaluate our models. These datasets span over various ap- pearance styles and content. We also introduce our own synthetically generated SynthTabNet dataset to x an im- 
Figure 2: Distribution of the tables across different table dimensions in PubTabNet + FinTabNet datasets balance in the previous datasets. The PubTabNet dataset contains 509k tables delivered as annotated PNG images. The annotations consist of the table structure represented in HTML format, the tokenized text and its bounding boxes per table cell. Fig.  1  shows the ap- pearance style of PubTabNet. Depending on its complexity, a table is characterized as simple when it does not contain row spans or column spans, otherwise it is complex. The dataset is divided into Train and Val splits (roughly 98% and 2%). The Train split consists of 54% simple and 46% com- plex tables and the Val split of 51% and 49% respectively. The FinTabNet dataset contains 112k tables delivered as single-page PDF documents with mixed table structures and text content. Similarly to the PubTabNet, the annotations of FinTabNet include the table structure in HTML, the to- kenized text and the bounding boxes on a table cell basis. The dataset is divided into Train, Test and Val splits (81%, 9.5%, 9.5%), and each one is almost equally divided into simple and complex tables (Train: 48% simple, 52% com- plex, Test: 48% simple, 52% complex, Test: 53% simple, 47% complex). Finally the TableBank dataset consists of 145k tables provided as JPEG images. The latter has anno- tations for the table structure, but only few with bounding boxes of the table cells. The entire dataset consists of sim- ple tables and it is divided into 90% Train, 3% Test and 7% Val splits. Due to the heterogeneity across the dataset formats, it was necessary to combine all available data into one homog- enized dataset before we could train our models for practi- cal purposes. Given the size of PubTabNet, we adopted its annotation format and we extracted and converted all tables as PNG images with a resolution of 72 dpi. Additionally, we have ltered out tables with extreme sizes due to small 3

tables (e.g. TableBank) or they narrow their scope only to
non-empty cells. Therefore, it was imperative to introduce
a data pre-processing procedure that generates the missing
bounding boxes out of the annotation information. This procedure rst parses the provided table structure and calculates the dimensions of the most ne-grained grid that covers the table structure. Notice that each table cell may occupy multiple grid squares due to row or column spans. In
case of PubTabNet we had to compute missing bounding
boxes for 48% of the simple and 69% of the complex tables. Regarding FinTabNet, 68% of the simple and 98%
of the complex tables require the generation of bounding
boxes.

As it is illustrated in Fig. 2 , the table distributions from 4. The TableFormer model
all datasets are skewed towards simpler structures with
fewer number of rows/columns. Additionally, there is very Given the image of a table, TableFormer is able to prelimited variance in the table styles, which in case of Pub- dict: 1) a sequence of tokens that represent the structure of
TabNet and FinTabNet means one styling format for the a table, and 2) a bounding box coupled to a subset of those
majority of the tables. Similar limitations appear also in tokens. The conversion of an image into a sequence of tothe type of table content, which in some cases (e.g. FinTab- kens is a well-known task [ 35 , 16 ]. While attention is often
Net) is restricted to a certain domain. Ultimately, the lack used as an implicit method to associate each token of the
of diversity in the training dataset damages the ability of the sequence with a position in the original image, an explicit
models to generalize well on unseen data. association between the individual table-cells and the image

a synthetic table dataset named SynthTabNet . This approach

structure, 3) the table style and 4) the type of content. The We now describe in detail the proposed method, which
complexity of the table structure is described by the size of is composed of three main components, see Fig. 4 . Our
the table header and the table body, as well as the percentage CNN Backbone Network encodes the input as a feature vecof the table cells covered by row spans and column spans. tor of predened length. The input feature vector of the
A set of carefully designed styling templates provides the encoded image is passed to the Structure Decoder to probasis to build a wide range of table appearances. Lastly, the duce a sequence of HTML tags that represent the structure
table content is generated out of a curated collection of text of the table. With each prediction of an HTML standard
corpora. By controlling the size and scope of the synthetic data cell (‘ < td > ’) the hidden state of that cell is passed to
datasets we are able to train and evaluate our models in a the Cell BBox Decoder. As for spanning cells, such as row
variety of different conditions. For example, we can rst or column span, the tag is broken down to ‘ < ’, ‘rowspan= ’
generate a highly diverse dataset to train our models and or ‘colspan= ’, with the number of spanning cells (attribute),
then evaluate their performance on other synthetic datasets and ‘ > ’. The hidden state attached to ‘ < ’ is passed to the
which are focused on a specic domain. Cell BBox Decoder. A shared feed forward network (FFN)

4

Tags Bbox Size Format amount of such tables, and kept only those ones ranging
PubTabNet 3 3 509k PNG between 1*1 and 20*10 (rows/columns).
FinTabNet 3 3 112k PDF The availability of the bounding boxes for all table cells
3 7 145k JPEG TableBank is essential to train our models. In order to distinguish be-
Combined-Tabnet(*) 3 3 400k PNG tween empty and non-empty bounding boxes, we have in-
Combined(**) 3 3 500k PNG troduced a binary class in the annotation. Unfortunately, the
3 3 600k PNG SynthTabNet original datasets either omit the bounding boxes for whole

Table 1: Both Combined-Tabnet and Combined-
Tabnet are variations of the following: (*) The Combined-
Tabnet dataset is the processed combination of PubTabNet
and Fintabnet. (**) The combined dataset is the processed
combination of PubTabNet, Fintabnet and TableBank.

one adopts a colorful appearance with high contrast and the
last one contains tables with sparse content. Lastly, we have
combined all synthetic datasets into one big unied synthetic dataset of 600k examples.
Tab. 1 summarizes the various attributes of the datasets.

bounding boxes is also required. Motivated by those observations we aimed at generating

### 4.1. Model architecture. offers control over: 1) the size of the dataset, 2) the table

receives the hidden states from the Structure Decoder, to In this regard, we have prepared four synthetic datasets,
provide the nal detection predictions of the bounding box each one containing 150k examples. The corpora to genercoordinates and their classication. ate the table text consists of the most frequent terms appear-
CNN Backbone Network. A ResNet-18 CNN is the ing in PubTabNet and FinTabNet together with randomly
backbone that receives the table image and encodes it as a generated text. The rst two synthetic datasets have been
vector of predened length. The network has been modied ne-tuned to mimic the appearance of the original datasets
by removing the linear and pooling layer, as we are not per- but encompass more complicated table structures. The third

Figure 3: TableFormer takes in an image of the PDF and creates bounding box and HTML structure predictions that are
synchronized. The bounding boxes grabs the content from the PDF and inserts it in the structure.

5

forming classication, and adding an adaptive pooling layer
of size 28*28. ResNet by default downsamples the image
resolution by 32 and then the encoded image is provided to
both the Structure Decoder , and Cell BBox Decoder .
Structure Decoder. The transformer architecture of this
component is based on the work proposed in [ 31 ]. After
extensive experimentation, the Structure Decoder is modeled as a transformer encoder with two encoder layers and
a transformer decoder made from a stack of 4 decoder layers that comprise mainly of multi-head attention and feed
forward layers. This conguration uses fewer layers and
heads in comparison to networks applied to other problems
(e.g. Scene Understanding, Image Captioning), something which we relate to the simplicity of table images.
The transformer encoder receives an encoded image
from the CNN Backbone Network and renes it through a
multi-head dot-product attention layer, followed by a Feed
Forward Network. During training, the transformer decoder receives as input the output feature produced by the
transformer encoder, and the tokenized input of the HTML
ground-truth tags. Using a stack of multi-head attention layers, different aspects of the tag sequence could be inferred.
This is achieved by each attention head on a layer operating
in a different subspace, and then combining altogether their Figure 4: Given an input image of a table, the Encoder proattention score. duces xed-length features that represent the input image.
Cell BBox Decoder. Our architecture allows to simul- The features are then passed to both the Structure Decoder
taneously predict HTML tags and bounding boxes for each and Cell BBox Decoder . During training, the Structure
table cell without the need of a separate object detector end Decoder receives ‘tokenized tags’ of the HTML code that
to end. This approach is inspired by DETR [ 1 ] which em- represent the table structure. Afterwards, a transformer enploys a Transformer Encoder, and Decoder that looks for coder and decoder architecture is employed to produce feaa specic number of object queries (potential object detec- tures that are received by a linear layer, and the Cell BBox
tions). As our model utilizes a transformer architecture, the Decoder. The linear layer is applied to the features to
hidden state of the < td > ’ and ‘ < ’ HTML structure tags be- predict the tags. Simultaneously, the Cell BBox Decoder
come the object query. selects features referring to the data cells (‘ < td > ’, ‘ < ’) and
The encoding generated by the CNN Backbone Network passes them through an attention network, an MLP, and a
along with the features acquired for every data cell from the linear layer to predict the bounding boxes.
Transformer Decoder are then passed to the attention network. The attention network takes both inputs and learns to
provide an attention weighted encoding. This weighted at-

tention encoding is then multiplied to the encoded image to runtime performance and lower memory footprint of Tableproduce a feature for each table cell. Notice that this is dif- Former. This allows to utilize input samples with longer
ferent than the typical object detection problem where im- sequences and images with larger dimensions.
balances between the number of detections and the amount
of objects may exist. In our case, we know up front that
the produced detections always match with the table cells
in number and correspondence.

The output features for each table cell are then fed Decoder Layers with similar input and output dimensions
into the feed-forward network (FFN). The FFN consists as the Transformer Encoder Layers. Even though our
of a Multi-Layer Perceptron (3 layers with ReLU activa- model uses fewer layers and heads than the default impletion function) that predicts the normalized coordinates for mentation parameters, our extensive experimentation has
the bounding box of each table cell. Finally, the predicted proved this setup to be more suitable for table images. We
bounding boxes are classied based on whether they are attribute this nding to the inherent design of table imempty or not using a linear layer. ages, which contain mostly lines and text, unlike the more
Loss Functions. We formulate a multi-task loss Eq. 2 elaborate content present in other scopes (e.g. the COCO
to train our network. The Cross-Entropy loss (denoted as dataset). Moreover, we have added ResNet blocks to the
l ) is used to train the Structure Decoder which predicts the s inputs of the Structure Decoder and Cell BBox Decoder.
structure tokens. As for the Cell BBox Decoder it is trained This prevents a decoder having a stronger inuence over the
with a combination of losses denoted as l . l consists box box learned weights which would damage the other prediction
of the generally used l loss for object detection and the 1 task (structure vs bounding boxes), but learn task specic
IoU loss ( l ) to be scale invariant as explained in [ 25 ]. In iou weights instead. Lastly our dropout layers are set to 0.5.
comparison to DETR, we do not use the Hungarian algo
all post-processed datasets. TableFormer is implemented with PyTorch and Torchvi-
The loss used to train the TableFormer can be dened as sion libraries [ 22 ]. To speed up the inference, the image
following: undergoes a single forward pass through the CNN Back
l = l + box iou iou l 1 step. Similarly, we employ a ’caching’ technique to preform
(1)

l = l + (1 ) l faster autoregressive decoding. This is achieved by storing s box

where 2 [0, 1], and ; 2 R are hyper-parameters. iou l 1 each time step. Therefore, we only compute the attention

5. 5. Experimental Results
5.1. Implementation Details 5.2. Generalization
TableFormer uses ResNet-18 as the CNN Backbone Net-
1. (2) spectively.
Structural tags length 512 tokens.

Although input constraints are used also by other methods, SynthTabNet dataset. Throughout our experiments, the
such as EDD, ours are less restrictive due to the improved same parameters stated in Sec. 5.1 are utilized.

6

The Transformer Encoder consists of two Transformer
Encoder Layers, with an input feature size of 512, feed
forward network of 1024, and 4 attention heads. As for the
Transformer Decoder it is composed of four Transformer

For training, TableFormer is trained with 3 Adam opti- rithm [ 15 ] to match the predicted bounding boxes with the
mizers, each one for the CNN Backbone Network , Structure ground-truth boxes, as we have already achieved a one-to-
Decoder , and Cell BBox Decoder . Taking the PubTabNet as one match through two steps: 1) Our token input sequence
an example for our parameter set up, the initializing learn- is naturally ordered, therefore the hidden states of the table
ing rate is 0.001 for 12 epochs with a batch size of 24, and data cells are also in order when they are provided as inset to 0.5. Afterwards, we reduce the learning rate to put to the Cell BBox Decoder , and 2) Our bounding boxes
0.0001, the batch size to 18 and train for 12 more epochs or generation mechanism (see Sec. 3 ) ensures a one-to-one
convergence. mapping between the cell content and its bounding box for

bone Network and transformer encoder. This eliminates the
overhead of generating the same features for each decoding

### the features of decoded tokens so we can reuse them for

for each new tag.

TableFormer is evaluated on three major publicly avail- work . The input images are resized to 448*448 pixels and
able datasets of different nature to prove the generalization the feature map has a dimension of 28*28. Additionally, we
and effectiveness of our model. The datasets used for eval- enforce the following input constraints:
uation are the PubTabNet, FinTabNet and TableBank which
stem from the scientic, nancial and general domains re- Image width and height 1024 pixels

### We also share our baseline results on the challenging

5.3. Datasets and Metrics our Cell BBox Decoder accuracy for cells with a class la-
The Tree-Edit-Distance-Based Similarity (TEDS) metric was introduced in [ 37 ]. It represents the prediction, and
ground-truth as a tree structure of HTML tags. This similarity is calculated as:

### a b

TEDS ( T ; T ) = 1 (3) a b the Structure Decoder provides the Cell BBox Decoder with
max ( j T j ; j T j ) a b

where T and T represent tables in tree structure HTML a b Therefore, the accuracy of the Structure Decoder directly
format. EditDist denotes the tree-edit distance, and j T j rep- inuences the accuracy of the Cell BBox Decoder . If the
resents the number of nodes in T . Structure Decoder predicts an extra column, this will result

### 5.4. Quantitative Analysis

Structure. As shown in Tab. 2 , TableFormer outper
margin for predicting the table structure from an image. EDD+BBox PubTabNet 79.2 82.7
All the more, our model outperforms pre-trained methods. TableFormer PubTabNet 82.1 86.8
During the evaluation we do not apply any table ltering. TableFormer SynthTabNet 87.7 -
We also provide our baseline results on the SynthTabNet
dataset. It has been observed that large tables (e.g. tables Table 3: Cell Bounding Box detection results on PubTabthat occupy half of the page or more) yield poor predictions. Net, and FinTabNet. PP: Post-processing.
We attribute this issue to the image resizing during the preprocessing step, that produces downsampled images with
indistinguishable features. This problem can be addressed Cell Content. In this section, we evaluate the entire
by treating such big tables with a separate model which ac- pipeline of recovering a table with content. Here we put
cepts a large input image size. our approach to test by capitalizing on extracting content

TEDS 4 shows the TEDs score of HTML code representing the
Model

Dataset Simple Complex All structure of the table along with the content inserted in the

EDD FTN 88.4 92.08 90.6 content. Unfortunately, there are small discrepancies such
GTE FTN - - 87.14 as spacings around words or special characters with various
GTE (FT) FTN - - 91.02 unicode representations.
TableFormer FTN 97.5 96.0 96.8
EDD TB 86.0 - 86.0

### TableFormer STN 96.9 95.7 96.7

_Table 2: Structure results on PubTabNet (PTN), FinTabNet
(FTN), TableBank (TB) and SynthTabNet (STN).
FT: Model was trained on PubTabNet then netuned._

Cell Detection. Like any object detector, our Cell BBox
Detector provides bounding boxes that can be improved Table 4: Results of structure with content retrieved using
with post-processing during inference. We make use of the cell detection on PubTabNet. In all cases the input is PDF
grid-like structure of tables to rene the predictions. A de- documents with cropped tables.
tailed explanation on the post-processing is available in the
supplementary material. As shown in Tab. 3 , we evaluate

7

bel of ‘content’ only using the PASCAL VOC mAP metric
for pre-processing and post-processing. Note that we do
not have post-processing results for SynthTabNet as images
are only provided. To compare the performance of our proposed approach, we’ve integrated TableFormer’s Cell BBox
Decoder into EDD architecture. As mentioned previously, EditDist ( T ; T )

the features needed to predict the bounding box predictions.

in an extra column of predicted bounding boxes.

Model Dataset mAP mAP (PP) forms all SOTA methods across different datasets by a large

from the PDF cells rather than decoding from images. Tab.

data cell and compared with the ground-truth. Our method EDD PTN 91.1 88.7 89.9
achieved a 5.3% increase over the state-of-the-art, and com- GTE PTN - - 93.01
mercial solutions. We believe our scores would be higher TableFormer PTN 98.5 95.0 96.75
if the HTML ground-truth matched the extracted PDF cell

TEDS TableFormer TB 89.6 - 89.6
Model

Simple Complex All
Tabula 78.0 57.8 67.9
Traprange 60.8 49.9 55.4
Camelot 80.0 66.0 73.0
Acrobat Pro 68.9 61.8 65.3
EDD 91.2 85.4 88.3
TableFormer 95.4 90.1 93.6

Figure 5: One of the benets of TableFormer is that it is language agnostic, as an example, the left part of the illustration demonstrates TableFormer predictions on previously unseen language (Japanese). Additionally, we see that TableFormer is robust to variability in style and content, right side of the illustration shows the example of the TableFormer prediction from the FinTabNet dataset.

Figure 6: An example of TableFormer predictions (bounding boxes and structure) from generated SynthTabNet table. 5.5. Qualitative Analysis We showcase several visualizations for the different components of our network on various complex tables within datasets presented in this work in Fig.  5  and Fig.  6 As it is shown, our model is able to predict bounding boxes for all table cells, even for the empty ones. Additionally, our post-processing techniques can extract the cell content by matching the predicted bounding boxes to the PDF cells based on their overlap and spatial proximity. The left part of Fig.  5  demonstrates also the adaptability of our method to any language, as it can successfully extract Japanese text, although the training set contains only English content. We provide more visualizations including the intermediate steps in the supplementary material. Overall these illustra- tions justify the versatility of our method across a diverse range of table appearances and content type. 6. Future Work & Conclusion In this paper, we presented TableFormer an end-to-end transformer based approach to predict table structures and bounding boxes of cells from an image. This approach en- ables us to recreate the table structure, and extract the cell content from PDF or OCR by using bounding boxes. Ad- ditionally, it provides the versatility required in real-world scenarios when dealing with various types of PDF docu- ments, and languages. Furthermore, our method outper- forms all state-of-the-arts with a wide margin. Finally, we introduce SynthTabNet a challenging synthetically gen- erated dataset that reinforces missing characteristics from other datasets. References [1]  Nicolas Carion, Francisco Massa, Gabriel Synnaeve, Nicolas Usunier, Alexander Kirillov, and Sergey Zagoruyko. End-to- 8

end object detection with transformers. In Andrea Vedaldi, [16] Girish Kulkarni, Visruth Premraj, Vicente Ordonez, Sag
tors, Computer Vision  ECCV 2020 , pages 213229, Cham, Tamara L. Berg. Babytalk: Understanding and generat-
2020. Springer International Publishing. 5 ing simple image descriptions. IEEE Transactions on Pat
recognition. arXiv preprint arXiv:1908.04729 , 2019. 3 [17] Minghao Li, Lei Cui, Shaohan Huang, Furu Wei, Ming

2014. 2 [18] Yiren Li, Zheng Huang, Junchi Yan, Yi Zhou, Fan Ye, and
· · [4] Herv e D ejean, Jean-Luc Meunier, Liangcai Gao, Yilun Xianhui Liu. Gfte: Graph-based nancial table extraction.
Huang, Yu Fang, Florian Kleber, and Eva-Maria Lang. IC- In Alberto Del Bimbo, Rita Cucchiara, Stan Sclaroff, Gio-
DAR 2019 Competition on Table Detection and Recognition vanni Maria Farinella, Tao Mei, Marco Bertini, Hugo Jair
(cTDaR), Apr. 2019. http://sac.founderit.com/. 2 Escalante, and Roberto Vezzani, editors, Pattern Recogni
and Image Analysis , pages 609618. Springer, 2005. 2 [19] Nikolaos Livathinos, Cesar Berrospi, Maksym Lysak, Vik
using table grammars. procs. In Symposium on Document [20] Rujiao Long, Wen Wang, Nan Xue, Feiyu Gao, Zhibo Yang,
Analysis and Recognition (SDAIR’95) , pages 261277. 2 Yongpan Wang, and Gui-Song Xia. Parsing table structures

tors: Cascade network for table detection in document im- [21] Shubham Singh Paliwal, D Vishwanath, Rohit Rahul,
ages with recursive feature pyramid and switchable atrous Monika Sharma, and Lovekesh Vig. Tablenet: Deep learnconvolution. Journal of Imaging , 7(10), 2021. 1 ing model for end-to-end table detection and tabular data ex-

[10] Yelin He, X. Qi, Jiaquan Ye, Peng Gao, Yihao Chen, Bing- [22] Adam Paszke, Sam Gross, Francisco Massa, Adam Lerer,
cong Li, Xin Tang, and Rong Xiao. Pingan-vcgroup’s so- James Bradbury, Gregory Chanan, Trevor Killeen, Zeming
lution for icdar 2021 competition on scientic table image Lin, Natalia Gimelshein, Luca Antiga, Alban Desmaison,
recognition to latex. ArXiv , abs/2105.01846, 2021. 2 Andreas Kopf, Edward Yang, Zachary DeVito, Martin Rai-

In 2013 12th International Conference on Document Analy- [24] Shah Rukh Qasim, Hassan Mahmood, and Faisal Shafait.
sis and Recognition , pages 11851189. IEEE, 2013. 2 Rethinking table recognition using graph neural networks.

recognition to latex, 2021. 2 [25] Hamid Rezatoghi, Nathan Tsoi, JunYoung Gwak, Amir

9

nik Dhar, Siming Li, Yejin Choi, Alexander C. Berg, and Horst Bischof, Thomas Brox, and Jan-Michael Frahm, edi
tern Analysis and Machine Intelligence , 35(12):28912903, [2] Zewen Chi, Heyan Huang, Heng-Da Xu, Houjin Yu, Wanx-
2013. 4 uan Yin, and Xian-Ling Mao. Complicated table structure

Zhou, and Zhoujun Li. Tablebank: A benchmark dataset [3] Bertrand Couasnon and Aurelie Lemaitre. Recognition of Tafor table detection and recognition, 2019. 2 , 3 bles and Forms , pages 647677. Springer London, London,

tion. ICPR International Workshops and Challenges , pages [5] Basilios Gatos, Dimitrios Danatsas, Ioannis Pratikakis, and
644658, Cham, 2021. Springer International Publishing. 2 , Stavros J Perantonis. Automatic table detection in document
3 images. In International Conference on Pattern Recognition

tor Kuropiatnyk, Ahmed Nassar, Andre Carvalho, Michele ¤ [6] Max G obel, Tamir Hassan, Ermelinda Oro, and Giorgio Orsi.
Dol, Christoph Auer, Kasper Dinkla, and Peter Staar. Ro- Icdar 2013 table competition. In 2013 12th International
bust pdf document conversion using recurrent neural net- Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition , pages
works. Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Articial 14491453, 2013. 2
Intelligence , 35(17):1513715145, May 2021. 1 [7] EA Green and M Krishnamoorthy. Recognition of tables

in the wild. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International [8] Khurram Azeem Hashmi, Alain Pagani, Marcus Liwicki, Di-
Conference on Computer Vision , pages 944952, 2021. 2 dier Stricker, and Muhammad Zeshan Afzal. Castabdetec
traction from scanned document images. In 2019 Interna- [9] Kaiming He, Georgia Gkioxari, Piotr Dollar, and Ross Girtional Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition shick. Mask r-cnn. In Proceedings of the IEEE International
(ICDAR) , pages 128133. IEEE, 2019. 1 Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) , Oct 2017. 1

son, Alykhan Tejani, Sasank Chilamkurthy, Benoit Steiner, [11] Jianying Hu, Ramanujan S Kashi, Daniel P Lopresti, and
Lu Fang, Junjie Bai, and Soumith Chintala. Pytorch: An im- Gordon Wilfong. Medium-independent table detection. In
perative style, high-performance deep learning library. In H. Document Recognition and Retrieval VII , volume 3967,
· Wallach, H. Larochelle, A. Beygelzimer, F. dAlch e-Buc, E. pages 291302. International Society for Optics and Photon-
Fox, and R. Garnett, editors, Advances in Neural Informa- ics, 1999. 2
tion Processing Systems 32 , pages 80248035. Curran Asso- [12] Matthew Hurst. A constraint-based approach to table strucciates, Inc., 2019. 6 ture derivation. In Proceedings of the Seventh International
[23] Devashish Prasad, Ayan Gadpal, Kshitij Kapadni, Manish Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition - Volume
Visave, and Kavita Sultanpure. Cascadetabnet: An approach 2 , ICDAR ’03, page 911, USA, 2003. IEEE Computer Socifor end to end table detection and structure recognition from ety. 2
image-based documents. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF [13] Thotreingam Kasar, Philippine Barlas, Sebastien Adam,
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition · Cl ement Chatelain, and Thierry Paquet. Learning to detect
Workshops , pages 572573, 2020. 1 tables in scanned document images using line information.

In 2019 International Conference on Document Analysis and [14] Pratik Kayal, Mrinal Anand, Harsh Desai, and Mayank
Recognition (ICDAR) , pages 142147. IEEE, 2019. 3 Singh. Icdar 2021 competition on scientic table image

Sadeghian, Ian Reid, and Silvio Savarese. Generalized in- [15] Harold W Kuhn. The hungarian method for the assignment
tersection over union: A metric and a loss for bounding box problem. Naval research logistics quarterly , 2(1-2):8397,
regression. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on 1955. 6

Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 658666, 2019.  6 [26]  Sebastian Schreiber, Stefan Agne, Ivo Wolf, Andreas Den- gel, and Sheraz Ahmed. Deepdesrt: Deep learning for detec- tion and structure recognition of tables in document images. In 2017 14th IAPR International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition (ICDAR) , volume 01, pages 1162 1167, 2017.  1 [27]  Sebastian Schreiber, Stefan Agne, Ivo Wolf, Andreas Den- gel, and Sheraz Ahmed. Deepdesrt: Deep learning for de- tection and structure recognition of tables in document im- ages. In 2017 14th IAPR international conference on doc- ument analysis and recognition (ICDAR) , volume 1, pages 11621167. IEEE, 2017.  3 [28]  Faisal Shafait and Ray Smith. Table detection in heteroge- neous documents. In Proceedings of the 9th IAPR Interna- tional Workshop on Document Analysis Systems , pages 65 72, 2010.  2 [29]  Shoaib Ahmed Siddiqui, Imran Ali Fateh, Syed Tah- seen Raza Rizvi, Andreas Dengel, and Sheraz Ahmed. Deeptabstr: Deep learning based table structure recognition. In 2019 International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition (ICDAR) , pages 14031409. IEEE, 2019.  3 [30]  Peter W J Staar, Michele Dol, Christoph Auer, and Costas Bekas. Corpus conversion service: A machine learning plat- form to ingest documents at scale. In Proceedings of the 24th ACM SIGKDD , KDD ’18, pages 774782, New York, NY, USA, 2018. ACM.  1 [31]  Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszko- reit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez,  ukasz Kaiser, and Il- lia Polosukhin. Attention is all you need. In I. Guyon, U. V. Luxburg, S. Bengio, H. Wallach, R. Fergus, S. Vish- wanathan, and R. Garnett, editors, Advances in Neural In- formation Processing Systems 30 , pages 59986008. Curran Associates, Inc., 2017.  5 [32]  Oriol Vinyals, Alexander Toshev, Samy Bengio, and Du- mitru Erhan. Show and tell: A neural image caption gen- erator. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , June 2015.  2 [33]  Wenyuan Xue, Qingyong Li, and Dacheng Tao. Res2tim: reconstruct syntactic structures from table images. In 2019 International Conference on Document Analysis and Recog- nition (ICDAR) , pages 749755. IEEE, 2019.  3 [34]  Wenyuan Xue, Baosheng Yu, Wen Wang, Dacheng Tao, and Qingyong Li. Tgrnet: A table graph reconstruction network for table structure recognition. arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.10598 , 2021.  3 [35]  Quanzeng You, Hailin Jin, Zhaowen Wang, Chen Fang, and Jiebo Luo. Image captioning with semantic attention. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition , pages 46514659, 2016.  4 [36]  Xinyi Zheng, Doug Burdick, Lucian Popa, Peter Zhong, and Nancy Xin Ru Wang. Global table extractor (gte): A frame- work for joint table identication and cell structure recogni- tion using visual context. Winter Conference for Applications in Computer Vision (WACV) , 2021.  2 ,  3 [37]  Xu Zhong, Elaheh ShaeiBavani, and Antonio Ji- meno Yepes. Image-based table recognition: Data, model, and evaluation. In Andrea Vedaldi, Horst Bischof, Thomas Brox, and Jan-Michael Frahm, editors, Computer Vision  ECCV 2020 , pages 564580, Cham, 2020. Springer Interna- tional Publishing.  2 ,  3 ,  7 [38]  Xu Zhong, Jianbin Tang, and Antonio Jimeno Yepes. Pub- laynet: Largest dataset ever for document layout analysis. In 2019 International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition (ICDAR) , pages 10151022, 2019.  1 10

TableFormer: Table Structure Understanding with Transformers Supplementary Material 1. Details on the datasets 1.1. Data preparation As a rst step of our data preparation process, we have calculated statistics over the datasets across the following dimensions: (1) table size measured in the number of rows and columns, (2) complexity of the table, (3) strictness of the provided HTML structure and (4) completeness (i.e. no omitted bounding boxes). A table is considered to be simple if it does not contain row spans or column spans. Addition- ally, a table has a strict HTML structure if every row has the same number of columns after taking into account any row or column spans. Therefore a strict HTML structure looks always rectangular. However, HTML is a lenient encoding format, i.e. tables with rows of different sizes might still be regarded as correct due to implicit display rules. These implicit rules leave room for ambiguity, which we want to avoid. As such, we prefer to have strict tables, i.e. tables where every row has exactly the same length. We have developed a technique that tries to derive a missing bounding box out of its neighbors. As a rst step, we use the annotation data to generate the most ne-grained grid that covers the table structure. In case of strict HTML tables, all grid squares are associated with some table cell and in the presence of table spans a cell extends across mul- tiple grid squares. When enough bounding boxes are known for a rectangular table, it is possible to compute the geo- metrical border lines between the grid rows and columns. Eventually this information is used to generate the missing bounding boxes. Additionally, the existence of unused grid squares indicates that the table rows have unequal number of columns and the overall structure is non-strict. The gen- eration of missing bounding boxes for non-strict HTML ta- bles is ambiguous and therefore quite challenging. Thus, we have decided to simply discard those tables. In case of PubTabNet we have computed missing bounding boxes for 48% of the simple and 69% of the complex tables. Regard- ing FinTabNet, 68% of the simple and 98% of the complex tables require the generation of bounding boxes. Figure  7  illustrates the distribution of the tables across different dimensions per dataset. 1.2. Synthetic datasets Aiming to train and evaluate our models in a broader spectrum of table data we have synthesized four types of datasets. Each one contains tables with different appear- ances in regard to their size, structure, style and content. Every synthetic dataset contains 150k examples, summing up to 600k synthetic examples. All datasets are divided into Train, Test and Val splits (80%, 10%, 10%). The process of generating a synthetic dataset can be de- composed into the following steps: 1. Prepare styling and content templates: The styling templates have been manually designed and organized into groups of scope specic appearances (e.g. nancial data, marketing data, etc.) Additionally, we have prepared cu- rated collections of content templates by extracting the most frequently used terms out of non-synthetic datasets (e.g. PubTabNet, FinTabNet, etc.). 2. Generate table structures: The structure of each syn- thetic dataset assumes a horizontal table header which po- tentially spans over multiple rows and a table body that may contain a combination of row spans and column spans. However, spans are not allowed to cross the header - body boundary. The table structure is described by the parame- ters: Total number of table rows and columns, number of header rows, type of spans (header only spans, row only spans, column only spans, both row and column spans), maximum span size and the ratio of the table area covered by spans. 3. Generate content: Based on the dataset theme , a set of suitable content templates is chosen rst. Then, this content can be combined with purely random text to produce the synthetic content. 4. Apply styling templates: Depending on the domain of the synthetic dataset, a set of styling templates is rst manually selected. Then, a style is randomly selected to format the appearance of the synthesized table. 5. Render the complete tables: The synthetic table is nally rendered by a web browser engine to generate the bounding boxes for each table cell. A batching technique is utilized to optimize the runtime overhead of the rendering process. 2. Prediction post-processing for PDF docu- ments Although TableFormer can predict the table structure and the bounding boxes for tables recognized inside PDF docu- ments, this is not enough when a full reconstruction of the original table is required. This happens mainly due the fol- lowing reasons: 11

Figure 7: Distribution of the tables across different dimensions per dataset. Simple vs complex tables per dataset and split, strict vs non strict html structures per dataset and table complexity, missing bboxes per dataset and table complexity.   TableFormer output does not include the table cell con- tent.   There are occasional inaccuracies in the predictions of the bounding boxes. However, it is possible to mitigate those limitations by combining the TableFormer predictions with the informa- tion already present inside a programmatic PDF document. More specically, PDF documents can be seen as a se- quence of PDF cells where each cell is described by its con- tent and bounding box. If we are able to associate the PDF cells with the predicted table cells, we can directly link the PDF cell content to the table cell structure and use the PDF bounding boxes to correct misalignments in the predicted table cell bounding boxes. Here is a step-by-step description of the prediction post- processing: 1. Get the minimal grid dimensions - number of rows and columns for the predicted table structure. This represents the most granular grid for the underlying table structure. 2. Generate pair-wise matches between the bounding boxes of the PDF cells and the predicted cells. The Intersec- tion Over Union (IOU) metric is used to evaluate the quality of the matches. 3. Use a carefully selected IOU threshold to designate the matches as good ones and bad ones. 3.a. If all IOU scores in a column are below the thresh- old, discard all predictions (structure and bounding boxes) for that column. 4. Find the best-tting content alignment for the pre- dicted cells with good IOU per each column. The alignment of the column can be identied by the following formula: alignment = arg min c f D c g D c = max f x c g  min f x c g (4) where c is one of f left, centroid, right g and x c is the x- coordinate for the corresponding point. 5. Use the alignment computed in step 4, to compute the median x -coordinate for all table columns and the me- dian cell size for all table cells. The usage of median dur- ing the computations, helps to eliminate outliers caused by occasional column spans which are usually wider than the normal. 6. Snap all cells with bad IOU to their corresponding median x -coordinates and cell sizes. 7. Generate a new set of pair-wise matches between the corrected bounding boxes and PDF cells. This time use a modied version of the IOU metric, where the area of the intersection between the predicted and PDF cells is divided by the PDF cell area. In case there are multiple matches for the same PDF cell, the prediction with the higher score is preferred. This covers the cases where the PDF cells are smaller than the area of predicted or corrected prediction cells. 8. In some rare occasions, we have noticed that Table- Former can confuse a single column as two. When the post- processing steps are applied, this results with two predicted columns pointing to the same PDF column. In such case we must de-duplicate the columns according to highest to- tal column intersection score. 9. Pick up the remaining orphan cells. There could be cases, when after applying all the previous post-processing steps, some PDF cells could still remain without any match to predicted cells. However, it is still possible to deduce the correct matching for an orphan PDF cell by mapping its bounding box on the geometry of the grid. This mapping decides if the content of the orphan cell will be appended to an already matched table cell, or a new table cell should be created to match with the orphan. 9a. Compute the top and bottom boundary of the hori- zontal band for each grid row (min/max y coordinates per row). 9b. Intersect the orphan’s bounding box with the row bands, and map the cell to the closest grid row. 9c. Compute the left and right boundary of the vertical band for each grid column (min/max x coordinates per col- umn). 9d. Intersect the orphan’s bounding box with the column bands, and map the cell to the closest grid column. 9e. If the table cell under the identied row and column is not empty, extend its content with the content of the or- 12

phan cell. 9f. Otherwise create a new structural cell and match it wit the orphan cell. Aditional images with examples of TableFormer predic- tions and post-processing can be found below. 
Figure 8: Example of a table with multi-line header. 
Figure 9: Example of a table with big empty distance be- tween cells. 
Figure 10: Example of a complex table with empty cells. 13

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Figure 11: Simple table with different style and empty cells. 
Figure 12: Simple table predictions and post processing. 
Figure 13: Table predictions example on colorful table. 
Figure 14: Example with multi-line text. 14

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

_Figure 15: Example with triangular table. 
Figure 16: Example of how post-processing helps to restore mis-aligned bounding boxes prediction artifact. 15_

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

_Figure 17: Example of long table. End-to-end example from initial PDF cells to prediction of bounding boxes, post process- ing and prediction of structure. 16_

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->